{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f1\fnil Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green255\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\highlight1\f0\fs22\lang1033 11/01/2021\highlight0\par
\par
\highlight1\fs32 Select Clause with Where clause \par
\par
\highlight0\fs22\par
1) Display details of jobs where the minimum salary is greater than 10000.\par
\highlight1\par
-select * from jobs where min_salary > 10000;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
2) Display the first name and join date of the employees who joined between 2002 and 2005.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select first_name,hire_date from employees where hire_date between '2002-01-01' and '2005-01-01';\par
\highlight0\par
\par
3) Display first name and join date of the employees who is either IT Programmer or Sales Man.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select first_name,hire_date from employees where job_id='IT_PROG' or job_id='ST_MAN';\par
\highlight0\par
\par
4) Display first name, salary, commission pct, and hire date for employees with salary less than 10000.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select first_name,salary,commission_pct,hire_date from employees where salary>10000;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
5) Display job Title, the difference between minimum and maximum salaries for jobs with max salary in the range 10000 to 20000.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select job_title , max_salary-min_salary from jobs where max_salary between 10000 and 2;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
6) Display employees where the first name or last name starts with S.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select first_name,last_name from employees where first_name like's%' or last_name like 's%';\par
\highlight0\par
\par
7) Display details of jobs in the descending order of the title.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select * from jobs order by job_title desc;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
8) Display employees who joined in the month of May.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select first_name,hire_date from employees where dateformat(hire_date,'%m')='05';\par
\highlight0\par
\par
9) Display details of the employees where commission percentage is null and salary in the range 5000 to 10000 and department is 30.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select * from employees where commission_pct is null and salary between 5000 and 10000 and department_id=30;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
\par
\highlight1\fs32 Join \highlight0\par
\fs22\par
\par
\par
1). Display job title, employee ID, number of days between ending date and starting date for all jobs in department 30 from job history.\par
\par
\highlight1 - SELECT employee_id, job_title, end_date-start_date Days FROM job_history NATURAL JOIN jobs WHERE department_id=90;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
2) Display department name and manager first name.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select e.first_name,d.department_name from employees e inner join departments d where e.department_id=d.department_id;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
3) Display department name, manager name, and city.\par
\par

\pard\qj\highlight1 -select employees.first_name,departments.department_name,locations.city FROM ((departments INNER JOIN employees ON departments.department_id = employees.department_id) INNER JOIN locations ON departments.location_id = locations.location_id);\par
\highlight0\par

\pard 4) Display country name, city, and department name.\par
\par
\highlight1 - SELECT countries.country_name,departments.department_name,locations.city FROM ((locations INNER JOIN countries ON locations.country_id = countries.country_id) INNER JOIN departments ON locations.location_id = departments.location_id);\par
\highlight0\par
5) Display employee name and country in which he is working.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select first_name,country_name from employees e,departments d,location l,countries c where e.department_id=d.department_id\par
and d.location_id=l.location_id and l.country_id=c.country_id;\par
\par
\par
\highlight0\par
\highlight1\fs32 Functions \par
\par
\highlight0\fs22\par
\par
1. Display employees who joined in the month of May.\par
\par
\highlight1 --select first_name,hire_date from employees where dateformat(hire_date,'%m')='05';\par
\highlight0\par
\par
2. Display first name, salary, and round the salary to thousands.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select first_name,salary,round(salary,2) from employees;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
\par
3. Display first name and date of first salary of the employees.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select first_name,hire_date,last_day(hire_date) from employees; \par
\highlight0\par
4. Display first name and experience of the employees.\par
\par
\highlight1 - select first_name ,datediff(sysdate(),hire_date)/365 as experience from employees;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
5. Display the length of first name for employees where last name contain character \'e2\'80\f1\'98b\f0\'e2\'80\'99 after 3rd position.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select length(first_name) from employees where INSTR(last_name,'b')>3;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
6. Display first name in upper case and email address in lower case for employees where the first name and email address are same irrespective of the case.\par
\par
\highlight1 - select upper(first_name),lower(email) from employees;\par
\highlight0\par
7. Display employees who joined in the current year.\par
\par
\highlight1 - select first_name from employees where YEAR(hire_date)=YEAR(curdate());\par
\highlight0\par
\par
8. Display the number of days between system date and 1st January 1995.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select datediff(sysdate(),'1995-01-01');\par
\highlight0\par
9. Display how many employees joined in each month of the current year.\par
\par
\highlight1 -SELECT TO_CHAR(HIRE_DATE,'MM'), COUNT (*) FROM EMPLOYEES WHERE TO_CHAR(HIRE_DATE,'YYYY')= TO_CHAR(SYSDATE,'YYYY') GROUP BY TO_CHAR(HIRE_DATE,'MM') \par
\highlight0\par
\par
\highlight1\fs32 MySQL Aggregate function \fs22\par
\highlight0\par
\par
\par
1. Display employee ID and the date on which he ended his previous job.\par
\par
\highlight1 -SELECT EMPLOYEE_ID, MAX(END_DATE) FROM JOB_HISTORY GROUP BY EMPLOYEE_ID;\par
\highlight0\par
2. Display number of employees joined after 15th of the month.\par
\par
\highlight1 -select first_name,hire_date from employees where dateformat(hire_date,'%d')>'15';\par
\highlight0\par
\highlight1 select with Group by \par
\highlight0\par
3. Display the country ID and number of cities we have in the country.\par
\par
\highlight1 -SELECT COUNTRY_ID,  COUNT(*)  FROM LOCATIONS GROUP BY COUNTRY_ID\par
\highlight0\par
\par
4. Display average salary of employees in each department who have commission percentage.\par
\par
\highlight1 -SELECT DEPARTMENT_ID, AVG(SALARY) FROM EMPLOYEES \par
WHERE COMMISSION_PCT IS NOT NULL GROUP BY DEPARTMENT_ID\par
\highlight0\par
\par
\par
5. Display job ID, number of employees, sum of salary, and difference between highest salary and lowest salary of the employees of the job.\par
\par
\highlight1 -SELECT JOB_ID, COUNT(*), SUM(SALARY), MAX(SALARY)-MIN(SALARY) SALARY FROM EMPLOYEES GROUP BY JOB_ID;\par
\highlight0\par
\par
6. Display job ID for jobs with average salary more than 10000.\par
\par
\highlight1 -SELECT JOB_ID, AVG(SALARY) FROM EMPLOYEES GROUP BY JOB_ID HAVING AVG(SALARY)>10000\par
\highlight0\par
7. Display years in which more than 10 employees joined.\par
\par
\highlight1 -SELECT DATE_FORMAT(HIRE_DATE,'%Y') FROM employees GROUP BY DATE_FORMAT(HIRE_DATE,'%Y') HAVING COUNT(EMPLOYEE_ID) > 10;\par
\highlight0\par
8. Display departments in which more than five employees have commission percentage.\par
\par
\highlight1 -SELECT DEPARTMENT_ID FROM EMPLOYEES WHERE COMMISSION_PCT IS NOT NULL GROUP BY DEPARTMENT_ID HAVING COUNT(COMMISSION_PCT)>5\par
\highlight0\par
9. Display department name and number of employees in the department.\par
\par
\highlight1 -SELECT DEPARTMENT_NAME, COUNT(*) FROM EMPLOYEES NATURAL JOIN DEPARTMENTS GROUP BY DEPARTMENT_NAME;\par
\highlight0\par
10. Display employee ID for employees who did more than one job in the past.\par
\par
\highlight1 -SELECT EMPLOYEE_ID FROM JOB_HISTORY GROUP BY EMPLOYEE_ID HAVING COUNT(*) > 1\par
\highlight0\par
\par
\par
}
 